The NameNode stores modifications to the file system as a log appended to a native file system file, edits.

When a NameNode starts up, it reads HDFS state from an image file, fsimage, and then applies edits from the edits log file.

It then writes new HDFS state to the fsimage and starts normal operation with an empty edits file.

FsImage is a file stored on the OS filesystem that contains the complete directory structure (namespace) of the HDFS with details about the location of the data on the Data Blocks and which blocks are stored on which node.

EditLogs is a transaction log that recorde the changes in the HDFS file system or any action performed on the HDFS cluster such as addtion of a new block,

replication, deletion etc., It records the changes since the last FsImage was created,

it then merges the changes into the FsImage file to create a new FsImage file.

When we are starting namenode, latest FsImage file is loaded into "in-memory" and at the same time,

EditLog file is also loaded into memory if FsImage file does not contain up to date information.

Namenode stores metadata in "in-memory" in order to serve the multiple client request(s) as fast as possible.

If this is not done, then for every operation , namenode has to read the metadata information from the disk to in-memory. This process will consume more disk seek time for every operation.

so lets summary

Persistence of HDFS metadata broadly consist of two categories of files:

fsimage

Contains the complete state of the file system at a point in time. Every file system modification is assigned a unique, monotonically increasing transaction ID. An fsimage file represents the file system state after all modifications up to a specific transaction ID.

edits file

Contains a log that lists each file system change (file creation, deletion or modification) that was made after the most recent fsimage.

Checkpointing

is the process of merging the content of the most recent fsimage, with all edits applied after that fsimage is merged, to create a new fsimage. Checkpointing is triggered automatically by configuration policies or manually by HDFS administration commands.

